you've known you're supposed to be
wearing that mask for weeks now and you
may even have gloves but are you doing
it right let's go through the do's and
don'ts of gloves and masks serious
masked stranger
you may send others home with your cold
[Music]
according to the CDC my mask should fit
snugly but comfortably covering my nose
mouth and chin with ear loops or ties to
fasten it it should include multiple
fabric layers but allow me to breathe
normally and be washed and dried without
damage
very important I also wash my hands when
I'm getting ready to put my mask on or
after I take it off when I'm taking off
my mask I don't touch the front because
it could be contaminated I take it off
using the air loops or ties sometimes
when I'm wearing my mask I feel the urge
to do this or this but that's not good
don't hang it off your ear or pull it
below your chin it loses effectiveness
and you run the risk of a contaminated
part touching your face and finally
reusing masks it's not recommended to
reuse a homemade mask without washing or
sanitizing it and if it's a single-use
mask don't wear it again most
importantly just because I'm wearing a
mask does not mean I stop social
distancing all right but what about
gloves unless you work in health care
the CDC doesn't really mention gloves
for daily protection simply put gloves
can give people a false sense of
security
think of it this way I know my gloved
hand will definitely get contaminated if
I go out but unlike my bare hands I'm
probably not washing or sanitizing the
gloved hand as often I'll continue to go
about my life touching things like cell
phones banisters and door handles
potentially contaminating more surfaces
than I would have had I just been
washing my hands frequently most
concerning is that it's still very
likely I'll touch my face without
realizing it and those gloves are gonna
be dirty at the end of the day my gloves
might not even be protecting my hands
they aren't meant for daily activities
so they'll get rips and on top of that
I'll probably end up taking them off
wrong this is the right way to take them
off first I grab the outside of one
glove
the wrists I don't touch my skin and I
peel the glove away I hold that glove in
my other gloved hand now I slide my
fingers into this glove up into my palm
and peel the glove away turning it
inside out I leave the other glove
balled up inside this one throw them
away immediately and wash my hands to
sum it up if you only remember three
things wash your hands often wear a mask
but don't touch the front of it social
distance
hey NBC News viewers thanks for checking
out our YouTube channel subscribe by
clicking on that button down here and
click on any of the videos over here to
watch the latest interviews show
highlights and digital exclusives thanks
for watching